---
title: 'Jamstack'
description: 'Jamstack page.'
---

Nuxt is Jamstack ready. Jamstack stands for JavaScript, API's and markup. With Jamstack there is no server needed to run the application as the browser is the run time. The browser is responsible for calling the API instead of having to use a server to render your page or call your database in order to get your data. Both single page applications and multiple page applications otherwise known as static sites are considered Jamstack. However you do not need to use all 3 of these terms to be called a Jamstack site. You may perhaps have no API in your application but only JavaScript and markup and in this case you site is still considered a Jamstack site.

The Jamstack architecture continues to gain in popularity with more and more companies both large and small are opting for Jamstack sites vs server side rendered sites.

## How Static Sites work

Nuxt.js comes with a built in static site generator. When running `nuxt export` it will fetch the data and content and add it to your templates and then generate a HTML page that can be served to your users. By generating or pre-rendering your HTML there is no need to wait for a page to be requested from a server to then be generated as all this is done in advance at build time. This means at request time there is less work to be done so when users ask to view your page the page is already built and ready for the user to view it.

### Static v Dynamic

The term static does not mean that your site is static in a way that it has no dynamic capabilities. It simply means that with static sites your HTML files are pre-rendered with all the content needed for your site to be seen by search engines and by users. This differs from dynamic sites otherwise known as server-side rendered sites in that they are being generated dynamically with each incoming request.

### Why static sites are back

Modern static sites differ to those static sites that we built back in the 90's. The first ever website built by Tim Berners-Lee was static. Back then a static site was just a folder of HTML documents and browsers fetched these HTML pages through hyperlinks. The web was basically static. But as browsers evolved so did HTML and instead of just plain unstyled documents we soon created nicely styled documents with headers and footers reused on every page. It started to make sense to abstract the CSS and use it just for style and leave the HTML just for structure. And then templating languages took over so that we could reuse parts of our template in other files, this is what we call components today. Adding content to our site was done through databases and connecting to these databases meant using simple static sites was not an option. Dynamic websites, sites served up dynamically on a server became popular and were a good solution at the time.

However server rendered sites are prone to security vulnerabilities often leaving your site with the message "Database connection error". Scaling your website can be expensive and spikes in traffic have to be thought of in advance. As your site needs a server to run this needs to be paid for even for the most simplest of sites.

As the internet grew internet speeds became even more important and waiting for a page to load was a think of the past. Not to mention the increase in mobile devices as more and more visitors started to visit the web though their mobile and on 3G connections. Search engines penalise slow rendered sites and users abandon a site if it takes longer than 3 seconds to load and as more and more activity is done online especially in e-commerce there was a need to rethink how we create our websites.

Single page applications where a solution in that they were fast once of course the site had finished the initial download and extremely dynamic as all content was generated by JavaScript the moment the user visited the page. However many companies wouldn't use single page applications due to the lack of support for search engines and as SEO is extremely important SPA's were not really a solution for them.

That's when static sites were reborn and the name Jamstack was coined to take away the negative connection between static sites of the past and the static sites of today. The modern browser is now an operating system capable of doing much more than simply displaying documents downloaded from the web. Modern browsers can now store data locally, open webSockets to streaming servers, make external calls to API's and much more. Previously many of these features which used to require dynamic code running on a server can now be run in the browser. This is what makes it possible for static sites to be dynamic and allows you to create static sites for almost anything from blogs to portfolios and even e-commerce.

Static site generators are not new and have been around for a while. In Nuxt.js it has been possible to create static sites since the early days of Nuxt in v0.3.2, which was released in November 2016.

What differs in static sites of the past and Nuxt.js static sites is that once the site is displayed to the user Vue's hydration kicks in making your site act like it was a single page application in other words making it completely dynamic. Therefore your site is static once it is generated but dynamic once the user interacts with it.

Reactivity works just like it would in any single page application and it also means we can still fetch data from API's on user interaction such as on click methods for example. This means we can create static sites with shopping carts that call out to payment API's such as stripe or use Angolia search to have realtime searching on our static site. Thanks to these API's our static sites can be as static as we want or as dynamic as we want depending on user interaction.
