---
title: The components Property
navigation.title: components
description: 'Nuxt 2.13+ can scan and auto import your components'
menu: components
category: configuration-glossary
---
# The components property

Nuxt 2.13+ can scan and auto import your components using @nuxt/components module

---

::alert
It is possible to use this feature with Nuxt 2.10 - 2.12. Just manually install and add `@nuxt/components` to `buildModules` inside `nuxt.config`.
::

- Type: `Boolean` or `Array`
- Default: `false`

When set to `true` or an options object, Nuxt will include [@nuxt/components](https://github.com/nuxt/components) and auto-import your components wherever you use them within your pages, layouts (and other components).

::alert{type="info"}
For more information on how to use, please refer to [component auto-discovery documentation](/docs/features/component-discovery) for more information.
::

## Configuration

```js{}[nuxt.config.js]
export default {
  // This will automatically load components from `~/components`
  components: true
}
```

With `components: true`, by default the `~/components` directory will be included.

However you can customize auto-discovery behaviour by providing additional directories to scan:

```js{}[nuxt.config.js]
export default {
  components: [
    // Equivalent to { path: '~/components' }
    '~/components',
    { path: '~/components/other', extensions: ['vue'] }
  ]
}
```

#### path

Each item can be either string or object. A string value is a shortcut for `{ path }`.

::alert{type="info"}
Don't worry about ordering or overlapping directories! The components module will take care of it. (Each file will be only matched once with longest path.)
::

### path

- Required
- Type: `String`

Path (absolute or relative) to the directory containing your components.

You can use Nuxt aliases (`~` or `@`) to refer to directories inside the project or directly use a npm package path (similar to using `require` within your project).

### extensions

- Type: `Array<string>`
- Default:
  - Extensions supported by Nuxt builder (`builder.supportedExtensions`)
  - Default supported extensions `['vue', 'js']` or `['vue', 'js', 'ts', 'tsx']` depending on your environment

**Example:** Support multi-file component structure

If you prefer to split your SFCs into `.js`, `.vue` and `.css`, you could choose only to scan for `.vue` files:

```
| components
---| componentC
------| componentC.vue
------| componentC.js
------| componentC.scss
```

```js
// nuxt.config.js
export default {
  components: [{ path: '~/components', extensions: ['vue'] }]
}
```

### pattern

- Type: `string` ([glob pattern](https://github.com/isaacs/node-glob#glob-primer))
- Default: `**/*.${extensions.join(',')}`

Within the specified `path`, only files that match this pattern will be included.

### ignore

- Type: `Array`
- Items: `string` ([glob pattern](https://github.com/isaacs/node-glob#glob-primer))
- Default: `[]`

Patterns to exclude files within the specified `path`.

### prefix

- Type: `String`
- Default: `''` (no prefix)

Prefix all matched components.

The example below adds the `awesome-`/`Awesome` prefix to the name of components in the `awesome/` directory.

```js
// nuxt.config.js
export default {
  components: [
    '~/components',
    { path: '~/components/awesome/', prefix: 'awesome' }
  ]
}
```

```bash
| components/
---| awesome/
------| Button.vue
---| Button.vue
```

```html
<template>
  <div>
    <AwesomeButton>Click on me 🤘</AwesomeButton>
    <button>Click on me</button>
  </div>
</template>
```

### pathPrefix

- Type: `Boolean`
- Default: `true`

Prefix component name by its path.

### watch

- Type: `Boolean`
- Default: `true`

Watch the specified `path` for changes, including file additions and file deletions.

### transpile

- Type: `Boolean`
- Default: `'auto'`

Transpile specified `path` using [`build.transpile`](/docs/configuration-glossary/configuration-build#transpile). By default (`'auto'`) it will set `transpile: true` if `node_modules/` is in `path`.

### level

- Type: `Number`
- Default: `0`

Levels are used to define allow overwriting components that have the same name in two different directories. This can be useful for library authors who want to allow users to override their components, or for custom themes.

```js
export default {
  components: [
    '~/components', // default level is 0
    { path: 'my-theme/components', level: 1 }
  ]
}
```

A component in `~/components` will then overwrite one with the same name in `my-theme/components`. The lowest value takes priority.

## Advanced

### Overwriting Components

It is possible to have a way to overwrite components using the [level](#level) option. This is very useful for modules and theme authors.

Considering this structure:

```bash
| node_modules/
---| my-theme/
------| components/
---------| Header.vue
| components/
---| Header.vue
```

Then defining in the `nuxt.config`:

```js
components: [
  '~/components', // default level is 0
  { path: 'node_modules/my-theme/components', level: 1 }
]
```

Our `components/Header.vue` will overwrite our theme component since the lowest level takes priority.

### Library Authors

Making Vue Component libraries with automatic tree-shaking and component registration is now super easy ✨

This module exposes a hook named `components:dirs` so you can easily extend the directory list without requiring user configuration in your Nuxt module.

Imagine a directory structure like this:

```bash
| node_modules/
---| awesome-ui/
------| components/
---------| Alert.vue
---------| Button.vue
------| nuxt.js
| pages/
---| index.vue
| nuxt.config.js
```

Then in `awesome-ui/nuxt.js` you can use the `components:dir` hook:

```js
import { join } from 'path'

export default function () {
  this.nuxt.hook('components:dirs', dirs => {
    // Add ./components dir to the list
    dirs.push({
      path: join(__dirname, 'components'),
      prefix: 'awesome'
    })
  })
}
```

That's it! Now in your project, you can import your ui library as a Nuxt module in your `nuxt.config.js`:

```js
export default {
  buildModules: ['@nuxt/components', 'awesome-ui/nuxt']
}
```

And directly use the module components (prefixed with `awesome-`), our `pages/index.vue`:

```vue
<template>
  <div>
    My <AwesomeButton>UI button</AwesomeButton>!
    <awesome-alert>Here's an alert!</awesome-alert>
  </div>
</template>
```

It will automatically import the components only if used and also support HMR when updating your components in `node_modules/awesome-ui/components/`.

**Next**: publish your `awesome-ui` module to [npm](https://www.npmjs.com) and share it with the other Nuxters ✨
