---
title: Commands and Deployment
description: Nuxt.js comes with a set of useful commands, both for development and production purpose.
category: get-started
video: hYdXzIGDlYA
---

::video-player
src: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hYdXzIGDlYA
---
::

## Using in package.json

You should have these commands in your `package.json`:

```json
"scripts": {
  "dev": "nuxt",
  "build": "nuxt build",
  "start": "nuxt start",
  "generate": "nuxt generate"
}
```

You can launch your commands via `yarn <command>` or `npm run <command>` (example: `yarn dev` / `npm run dev`).

## Development Environment

To launch Nuxt in development mode with [hot module replacement](https://webpack.js.org/concepts/hot-module-replacement/) on `http://localhost:3000`:



::code-group
```bash [Yarn]
yarn dev
```
```bash [NPM]
npm run dev
```
::

## List of Commands

You can run different commands depending on the [target](/docs/features/deployment-targets):

### target: `server` (default value)

- **nuxt dev** - Launch the development server.
- **nuxt build** - Build and optimize your application with webpack for production.
- **nuxt start** - Start the production server (after running `nuxt build`). Use it for Node.js hosting like Heroku, Digital Ocean, etc.

### target: `static`

- **nuxt dev** - Launch the development server.
- **nuxt generate** - Build the application (if needed), generate every route as a HTML file and statically export to `dist/` directory (used for static hosting).
- **nuxt start** - serve the `dist/` directory like your static hosting would do (Netlify, Vercel, Surge, etc), great for testing before deploying.

## Webpack Config Inspection

You can inspect the webpack config used by Nuxt to build the project (similar to [vue inspect](https://cli.vuejs.org/guide/webpack.html#inspecting-the-project-s-webpack-config)).

- **nuxt webpack [query...]**

**Arguments:**

- `--name`: Bundle name to inspect. (client, server, modern)
- `--dev`: Inspect webpack config for dev mode
- `--depth`: Inspection depth. Defaults to 2 to prevent verbose output.
- `--no-colors`: Disable ANSI colors (disabled by default when TTY is not available or when piping to a file)

**Examples:**

- `nuxt webpack`
- `nuxt webpack devtool`
- `nuxt webpack resolve alias`
- `nuxt webpack module rules`
- `nuxt webpack module rules test=.jsx`
- `nuxt webpack module rules test=.pug oneOf use.0=raw`
- `nuxt webpack plugins constructor.name=WebpackBar options reporter`
- `nuxt webpack module rules loader=vue-`
- `nuxt webpack module rules "loader=.*-loader"`

## Production Deployment

Nuxt.js lets you choose between Server or Static deployments.

### Server Deployment

To deploy a SSR application we use `target: 'server'`, where server is the default value.

::code-group
```bash [Yarn]
yarn build
```
```bash [NPM]
npm run build
```
::

Nuxt.js will create a `.nuxt` directory with everything inside ready to be deployed on your server hosting.

::alert{type="info"}
We recommend putting `.nuxt` in `.npmignore` or `.gitignore`.
::

Once your application is built you can use the `start` command to see a production version of your application.

::code-group
```bash [Yarn]
yarn start
```
```bash [NPM]
npm run start
```
::

### Static Deployment (Pre-rendered)

Nuxt.js gives you the ability to host your web application on any static hosting.

To deploy a static generated site make sure you have `target: 'static'` in your `nuxt.config.js` (for Nuxt >= 2.13):

```js{}[nuxt.config.js]
export default {
  target: 'static'
}
```

::code-group
```bash [Yarn]
yarn generate
```
```bash [NPM]
npm run generate
```
::

Nuxt.js will create a `dist/` directory with everything inside ready to be deployed on a static hosting service.

As of Nuxt v2.13 there is a crawler installed that will now crawl your link tags and generate your routes when using the command `nuxt generate` based on those links.


::alert{type="warning"}
**Warning:** Dynamic routes are ignored by the `generate` command when using Nuxt <= v2.12: [API Configuration generate](/docs/configuration-glossary/configuration-generate)
::

::alert{type="info"}
When generating your web application with `nuxt generate`, [the context](/docs/internals-glossary/context) given to [asyncData](/docs/features/data-fetching#async-data) and [fetch](/docs/features/data-fetching#the-fetch-hook) will not have `req` and `res`.
::

#### **Fail on Error**

To return a non-zero status code when a page error is encountered and let the CI/CD fail the deployment or build, you can use the `--fail-on-error` argument.

::code-group
```bash [Yarn]
yarn generate --fail-on-error
```
```bash [NPM]
npm run generate --fail-on-error
```
::

## What's next?

::alert{type="next"}
Read our [Deployment Guides](/docs/deployment/21yunbox) to find examples for deployments to popular hosts.
::

</div>
