---
title: Deployment Targets
description: Nuxt comes with a set of useful commands, both for development and production purpose.
---
# Server side rendering

Server-side rendering (SSR), is the ability of an application to contribute by displaying the web-page on the server instead of rendering it in the browser. Server-side sends a fully rendered page to the client; the client's JavaScript bundle takes over which then allows the Vue.js app to [hydrate](https://ssr.vuejs.org/guide/hydration.html).

---

## Node.js server required

A JavaScript environment is required to render your web page.

A Node.js server needs to be configured to execute your Vue.js application.

## Extend and control the server

You can extend the server with serverMiddleware and control routes with middleware.

```js{}[server-middleware/logger.js]

export default function (req, res, next) {
  console.log(req.url)
  next()
}
```

```js{}[nuxt.config.js]
export default {
  serverMiddleware: ['~/server-middleware/logger']

}
```

## Server vs Browser environments

Because you are in a Node.js environment you have access to Node.js objects such as `req` and `res`. You do not have access to the `window` or `document` objects as they belong to the browser environment. You can however use `window` or `document` by using the `beforeMount` or `mounted` hooks.

```js
beforeMount () {
  window.alert('hello');
}
mounted () {
  window.alert('hello');
}
```

## Server-side rendering steps with Nuxt

### Step 1: Browser to Server

When a browser sends the initial request, it will hit the Node.js internal server. Nuxt will generate the HTML and send it back to the browser with results from executed functions, e.g. `asyncData`, `nuxtServerInit` or `fetch`. Hooks functions are executed as well.

### Step 2: Server to Browser

The browser receives the rendered page from the server with the generated HTML. The content is displayed and the Vue.js hydration kicks in, making it reactive. After this process, the page is interactive.

### Step 3: Browser to Browser

Navigating between pages with [`<NuxtLink>`](/docs/features/nuxt-components#the-nuxtlink-component) is done on the client side so you don't hit the server again unless you hard refresh the browser.

## Caveats

### window or document undefined

This is due to the server-side rendering. If you need to specify that you want to import a resource only on the client-side, you need to use the `process.client` variable.

For example, in your `.vue` file:

```js
if (process.client) {
  require('external_library')
}
```

### iOS and phone numbers

Some mobile Safari versions will automatically transform phone numbers into links. This will trigger a `NodeMismatch` warning as the SSR content doesn't match the website content anymore. This can make your app unusable on these Safari versions.

If you include telephone numbers in your Nuxt page, you have two options.

## Use a meta tag to stop the transformation

```html
<meta name="format-detection" content="telephone=no" />
```

## Wrap your phone numbers in links

```html
<!-- Example phone number: +7 (982) 536-50-77 -->

<template>
  <a href="tel: +7 (982) 536-50-77">+7 (982) 536-50-77</a>
</template>
```

# Static Site Generation

With static site generation you can render your application during the build phase and deploy it to any static hosting services such as Netlify, GitHub pages, Vercel etc. This means that no server is needed in order to deploy your application.

---
### Generating your site

When deploying your site in with [`target:static`](/docs/features/deployment-targets#static-hosting) all your `.vue` pages will be generated into HTML and JavaScript files. All calls to APIs will be made and cached in a folder called static inside your generated content so that no calls to your API need to be made on client side navigation.

### Step 1: Browser to CDN

When a browser sends the initial request, it will hit the CDN.

### Step 2: CDN to Browser

The CDN will send the already generated HTML, JavaScript and static assets back to the browser. The content is displayed and the Vue.js hydration kicks in, making it reactive. After this process, the page is interactive.

### Step 3: Browser to Browser

Navigating between pages with [`<NuxtLink>`](/docs/features/nuxt-components#the-nuxtlink-component) is done on the client side so you don't hit the CDN again and all API calls will be loaded from the already cached static folder even if you hard refresh the browser.

### SPA Fallback

Pages that have been excluded from generation, by using the `generate.exclude` property will fallback to being a single page application. These pages will therefore not exist in the CDN and will be rendered on client side in the browser once the user navigates to that page.

::alert{type="next"}
To learn more about the [generate property](/docs/configuration-glossary/configuration-generate#exclude)
::

### Updating your content

In order to get new content to your site from your API you will need to regenerate your site again. With most static sites hosting providers you can do this by pushing your changes to your main branch via the git command or via a pull request.

### Preview Mode

The Preview mode will call your API or your CMS so you can see the changes live before deploying. See the [preview mode](/docs/features/live-preview) on how to enable this feature.
